README.md, before:

# Sentinel AI Privacy Proxy 🛡️

**Protect your sensitive data. Observe your AI interactions.**

Sentinel AI Privacy Proxy is a high-performance "Man-in-the-Middle" security layer designed to intercept, redact, and rehydrate PII (Sensitive Personal Information) in LLM conversations. It ensures that sensitive data like names, emails, and phone numbers never reach your AI provider while remaining invisible to the end-user.

## ✨ Key Features

- **Precision Redacted Multi-Model Support**: Support for OpenAI and Google Gemini (Gemini 2.5 Pro/Flash, Gemini 3 Pro/Flash).
- **Automated PII Redaction**: Uses Microsoft Presidio to detect and mask sensitive entities in real-time.
- **Bi-directional Rehydration**: Automatically restores redacted information in LLM responses before they reach the user.
- **OpenAI Compatible**: Drop-in replacement for OpenAI's `/v1/chat/completions` API.
- **Security Dashboard**: Visualizes blocked threats, risk scores, and system performance using Shadcn/ui.
- **Postgres Persistence**: Securely logs redaction events and audit data for CISO-level observability.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Docker & Docker Compose
- OpenAI API Key or Google API Key (Optional, defaults to Mock Mode)

### Run with Docker
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repo-url>
cd ai-privacy-proxy

# Start the stack (provide keys in .env or pass them)
export OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
export GOOGLE_API_KEY=AIza...
docker compose up -d --build
```

The services will be available at:
- **Dashboard**: [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)
- **Proxy API**: [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000)
- **API Docs**: [http://localhost:8000/docs](http://localhost:8000/docs)

## 🛠️ Usage Example

### OpenAI Client
```python
import openai

client = openai.OpenAI(
    base_url="http://localhost:8000/v1", 
    api_key="your-key-here"
)

response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="gpt-3.5-turbo",
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "My name is Shubham Mathur and my phone is 9876543210."}]
)

print(response.choices[0].message.content)
# Output: "I understand. I have noted the details for Shubham Mathur." 
# (The LLM only saw <PERSON_1> and <PHONE_NUMBER_1>)
```

### Google Gemini Client
Simply change the model name to use Gemini models:
```python
response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="gemini-1.5-flash", # Also supports gemini-2.5-pro, gemini-3-flash, etc.
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "My email is test@example.com"}]
)
```

## 📊 Observability

The built-in dashboard provides real-time insights into your AI usage:
- **Total Requests & PII Counts**
- **Average Latency Overhead**
- **DLP Risk Scoring**
- **Live Traffic Inspector** (Sanitized view)

---
Built with ❤️ for AI Security.

Commit message:

feat: Introduce Active Control Center (v2) with analytics, advanced filtering, log detail views, and policy configuration, supported by backend API and database enhancements.

README.md, after:

# Sentinel AI Privacy Proxy 🛡️

**Protect your sensitive data. Observe your AI interactions.**

Sentinel AI Privacy Proxy is a high-performance "Man-in-the-Middle" security layer designed to intercept, redact, and rehydrate PII (Sensitive Personal Information) in LLM conversations. It ensures that sensitive data like names, emails, and phone numbers never reach your AI provider while remaining invisible to the end-user.

## ✨ Key Features

- **Precision Redacted Multi-Model Support**: Support for OpenAI and Google Gemini (Gemini 2.5 Pro/Flash, Gemini 3 Pro/Flash).
- **Automated PII Redaction**: Uses Microsoft Presidio to detect and mask sensitive entities in real-time.
- **Bi-directional Rehydration**: Automatically restores redacted information in LLM responses before they reach the user.
- **OpenAI Compatible**: Drop-in replacement for OpenAI's `/v1/chat/completions` API.
- **Active Control Center (v2)**: Advanced security dashboard with interactive drill-downs, analytics trends, and policy configuration.
- **Postgres Persistence**: Securely logs redaction events and audit data for CISO-level observability.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Docker & Docker Compose
- OpenAI API Key or Google API Key (Optional, defaults to Mock Mode)

### Run with Docker
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repo-url>
cd ai-privacy-proxy

# Start the stack (provide keys in .env or pass them)
export OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
export GOOGLE_API_KEY=AIza...
docker compose up -d --build
```

The services will be available at:
- **Dashboard**: [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)
- **Proxy API**: [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000)
- **API Docs**: [http://localhost:8000/docs](http://localhost:8000/docs)

## 🛠️ Usage Example

### OpenAI Client
```python
import openai

client = openai.OpenAI(
    base_url="http://localhost:8000/v1", 
    api_key="your-key-here"
)

response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="gpt-3.5-turbo",
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "My name is Shubham Mathur and my phone is 9876543210."}]
)

print(response.choices[0].message.content)
# Output: "I understand. I have noted the details for Shubham Mathur." 
# (The LLM only saw <PERSON_1> and <PHONE_NUMBER_1>)
```

### Google Gemini Client
Simply change the model name to use Gemini models:
```python
response = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="gemini-1.5-flash", # Also supports gemini-2.5-pro, gemini-3-flash, etc.
    messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "My email is test@example.com"}]
)
```

## 📊 Observability & Control (v2)

The built-in dashboard provides an **Active Control Center** for privacy auditing:
- **Security Analytics**: Traffic & Latency Trends (Area Chart) and PII Distribution (Donut Chart).
- **Live Traffic Inspector**: Advanced filtering by User ID, Status, or Entity Type.
- **Request Drill-Down**: Slide-over details for every request with metadata and redacted context.
- **Policy Configuration**: Real-time management of risk thresholds and active PII detectors.

---
Built with ❤️ for AI Security.
